---
layout: guidepost
title: Overview
categories: ["guide", "Intro"]
---

If you enjoy the guide, please give it a [review on Gumroad](https://gumroad.com/ewaterman) and share with your friends! This really helps reach other people who might find it useful.

You can also view the guide [on Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uU88rvvuLglSilok2pGVzNJ-GkUYjvrcpoyvYPAz0xE/edit#) if you prefer.

If you want to support me financially:
- First off, thank you so much for your support!
- Secondly, please use that money to support other comics artists, especially creators of marginalized and underrepresented communities. Go drop a few dollars in someone’s Patreon, or buy one of their comics. I’m doing just fine financially, and would be much happier knowing that money is going to a good cause.

### Lets get started!

Hey there! Welcome to the guide :)

First off I want to say that **everything in this guide is simply an expression of my opinion**. If you disagree with how I say something should be done, I encourage you to do it your own way. Everyone has their own processes, so when in doubt go with what feels best for you. I just wanted to share what’s worked for me in the hopes of helping you succeed in your comic making adventures.

Secondly, as much as I wish it was, **this guide is NOT comprehensive**. I’m still constantly updating it with new information that I come across. If you have any additional resources that you find helpful, please don’t hesitate to contact me and I’ll add them in.

Third, and probably most importantly, **every tip I specify in the guide has its exceptions**. While standards may be proven to work in many cases, when it comes to subjective mediums like comics, there is no rule (that I can think of) which applies 100% of the time. **The key is knowing when to apply, and when to break those rules.** Many well known creators have built their success off of diverging from the norms, but even with subversive and experimental art, intention is important.

If your goal is to simply explore the medium, whether it be for personal or experimental purposes, that's awesome. The great Lynda Barry would probably tell you to forget the rules, stop striving for perfection, and focus on expressing yourself through your art in your truest way possible, and I definitely agree with that sentiment. However, this guide is going to focus more on the deliberate choices that you can make in your art so that you can better ensure your intent comes through in the final result. As such, this guide will (hopefully) help you not only learn the rules, but also understand why the rules exist, allowing you to make a more educated decision about whether to follow them, or to break them.

Lastly, **don't be overwhelmed.** I know the guide is long but don’t feel that you need to fully grasp every single aspect of making comics before you actually start. I’d argue that no matter how much you prepare in advance, a majority of the art of comic making can only be learned by doing. So go out there, make mistakes and have fun!

<br>

### How The Guide Is Structured

<hr><br>
The purpose of this guide is to help walk you through every major step of creating a comic. Each step is broken down into chapters with each chapter being placed in the rough order that you’ll be working. That said, I’d advise you to read into future chapters before you start your comic as some lessons will apply to previous ones.